Configuration-Reference.md, before:

[nc-scan-auto]: https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-scan-auto
[nc-scan]: https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-scan

### Table of Contents  
* [BACKUPS](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#backups)   
* * [nc-backup-auto](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-backup-auto)
* * [nc-backup](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-backup)
* * [nc-export-ncp](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-export-ncp)
* * [nc-import-ncp](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-import-ncp)
* * [nc-restore](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-restore)
* * [nc-rsync-auto](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-rsync-auto)
* * [nc-rsync](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-rsync)
* * [nc-snapshot-sync](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-snapshot-sync)
* [CONFIG](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#config)   
* [NETWORKING](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#networking)   
* [SECURITY](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#security)   
* [SYSTEM](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#system)   
* [TOOLS](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#tools)
 
----------------------------------------
# BACKUPS

## nc-backup-auto
Perform automatic backups.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-backup-auto` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `DESTDIR` to a desired location for the backups.
4. Change `INCLUDEDATA` to `yes` (optional), to backup your data as well.
5. Change `BACKUPDAYS` to the number of days to perform the backup.
6. Change `BACKUPLIMIT` to the number of backups to be kept. If limit is reached, then the new backup will replace the older one.
7. Click Run or Start.

## nc-backup
Perform a manual backup.

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-backup` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `DESTDIR` to the desired location you want your backup to be.
3. Change `INCLUDEDATA` to `yes` if you want to include the Nextcloud data to the backup as well.
4. Change `BACKUPLIMIT` to the number of backups to be kept. If limit is reached, then the new backup will replace the older one.
5. Click Run or Start.

## nc-export-ncp
Export NextCloudPi configuration
Note: This exports **only** the settings from NCP.
**NO** NC data, NC database or NC configuration are included.

### How to configure
1. Create the directory where you want the NCP settings to be saved.
2. Set export directory path.
3. Click "Apply"

## nc-import-ncp
Import NextCloudPi configuration
Note: This imports **only** the settings from NCP. 
**NO** NC data, NC database or NC configuration are included

### How to configure
1. Set import file name and path.
3. Click "Apply"

## nc-restore
Restore a previously backuped Nextcloud instance.<br>
If the `data` folder of Nextcloud was not included in the backup: After restoring, edit /var/www/nextcloud/config/config.php and point your Nextcloud instance to the path where the data is. After that run nc-scan to make Nextcloud aware of the new files.

```
file: config.php
...
'datadirectory' => '/<your-path>/ncdata',
...
'logfile' => '/<your-path>/ncdata/nextcloud.log',
...
```

## nc-rsync
To get the rsync connection between the ncp and a backup-server working you need to establish two main steps:
1. The backup-server needs to have a user. This user needs diskspace, the permission for ssh-autologin and the right to use rsync.
2. On your ncp, root needs to be allowed to ssh-autologin to the user of the backup-server.

Step 1: 
Please check what you need to do on your server side. In case you use a Synology NAS (DiskStation, RackStation), you need to enable ssh ("Control Panel", "Terminal & SNMP"), give the user - which you use to backup the data - administration access ("Control Panel", "User"), and enable Rsync ("Control Panel", "File Sharing", "File Services").

Step 2: 
* Login to your ncp on the terminal
* change to the root account (sudo -s)
* go to the home directory of the root (cd ~)
* follow these steps to create the auto-login for the root user: [http://linuxproblem.org/art_9.html](http://linuxproblem.org/art_9.html) (a: root user, A: the IP of the ncp, b: user at the backup-server, B: IP of the backup server)
* make sure that ssh-access works for the root user to the backup-server

After these steps you should be able to backup your data with rsync between the ncp and the backup-server. Test this with the following command:

`rsync -e 'ssh -p 22' -av /home/pi/ b@B:/path/to/your/backup/`

If this works check the following next command:

`rsync -e 'ssh -p 22' -aAv /home/pi/ b@B:/path/to/your/backup/`

If this also works ("A" means ACL-support) then you are fine. If this gives and error message ("ACL not supported on server") then you need to either enable ACL-support on the backup-server-side or you need to tweak the ncp-script in: "/usr/local/etc/ncp-config.d/nc-rsync.sh" and "/usr/local/etc/ncp-config.d/nc-rsync-auto.sh" and remove the "A"-option in the rsync-command of the script (this counts for ncp version 0.64.2, the ACL option might be dropped in later versions, please check).

## nc-rsync-auto
See comments on nc-rsync. This lets you automatically schedule the rsync process every SYNCDAY.

---------------------------------------------------
# CONFIG

## nc-autoupdate-ncp
Automatically update NextCloudPi.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-autoupdate-ncp` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change the user to be notified when new updates are installed (default=admin).
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-database
Enable if you want to change the Nextcloud database location (e.x. to a usb drive).

> **Note** that non Unix filesystems such as NTFS are not supported because they do not provide a compatible user/permissions system.

>You need to use a USB drive that is permanently on and is responsive or the database will fail.     

> ** If it ever fails with a white page, move the database back to the SD **

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-database` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `DBDIR` to your database location.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-datadir
Change the `data` folder location of Nextcloud.

> **Note** that non Unix filesystems such as NTFS are not supported because they do not provide a compatible user/permissions system  

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-datadir` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `DATADIR` to your data location.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-httpsonly
Force secure connection using HTTPS.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-httpsonly` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-init
(Re)initiate Nextcloud to a clean configuration.

## nc-limits
Configure system limits for NextCloudPi.

> **Note** that `MAXFILESIZE` can be at maximum `2G` for now, due to limitation of 32bit php.

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-limits` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `MAXFILESIZE` to the desired maximum file size (<=2G).
3. Change `MEMORYLIMIT` to the memory limit you want (default=768M).
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-nextcloud
Download and install a specific Nextcloud version. This destroys any existing instance. You need to run nc-init after completing nc-nextcloud, to take care of setting up database and cron jobs.

## nc-notify-updates
Get notified for updates (Pending or Installed) through the Nextcloud notification system.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-notify-updates` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `USER` to the user you want to be notified (default=admin).
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-scan-auto
Automate a Nextcloud scan for user files.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-scan-auto` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Set `SCANINTERVAL` to the interval (in minutes) you want to scan every.
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-webui
Enable or disable the WebUI.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-webui` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.

-------------------------------------------------------
# NETWORKING

## NFS
Configure a NFS network file system server. This is a lightweight way to mount your cloud files through LAN in a Linux computer.

### SSH Activate/deactivate 

In order to enable SSH, the password for user pi can not remain set to the default raspberry.
You HAVE to create a NEW password for pi if you want this program to enable SSH, it will fail if you dont!
Note: Use normal AlphaNumeric, the only special characters allowed are .,@-_/

1. Navigate to `SSH` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change the password.
4. Confirm new password.
4. Click Run or Start.

## dnsmasq
This is a DNS server that you might need in case you cannot access you cloud from inside your house by the external URL, such as _mycloud.freeDNS.org_. This depends on wether your router supports _NAT loopback_. 

See [this post](https://ownyourbits.com/2017/03/09/dnsmasq-as-dns-cache-server-for-nextcloudpi-and-raspbian/) for details.

## freeDNS
[FreeDNS](https://freedns.afraid.org/) client.

Most home users do not have a static IP but rather a dynamic IP that changes from time to time. in order for you to be able to access your Nextcloud instance, from outside of your house, without typing an IP address you need a DDNS service which tracks IP changes and updates the DNS records. 

You need to register an account on [FreeDNS](https://freedns.afraid.org/) and setup a (sub)Domain Name.

### How to activate
Run the TUI (`ncp-config`) or use the WebUI.
Log in to freedns.afraid.com and click "Dynamic DNS". Right click on "Direct URL" next to your record. Paste it in a text editor and select only the hash (the letters after the "?").
1. Navigate to `DDNS_freeDNS` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`
3. Change the `UPDATEHASH` with yours (delete the example and paste with ctrl+shift+V)
4. Change `DOMAIN` with your Domain Name you have registered.
5. (Optional) Change the `UPDATEINTERVAL` to the interval time you want the client to update your IP (Dynamic IPs do not change that often so you can leave the default (5mins)).
6. Click Run or Start.

## letsencrypt

In order to trust a connection to a website and send your user name and password, you need a SSL certificate. The SSL certificate ensures that the communication is encrypted, so everything you send can only be viewed by the server and not someone who impersonates him. By default NextCloudPi provides a self signed SSL certificate in order to encrypt your communication but it is strongly recomended that you use a certificate from a certificate authority. The NextCloudPi can run the Let's Encrypt client which gets a certificate from https://letsencrypt.org for your (sub)Domain Name. NextCloudPi also configures the web server to use it and renews the certificate once a month.

### Configure
1. Navigate to `letsencrypt` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change the `DOMAIN` with your (sub)Domain Name.
3. Change the `EMAIL` with your Email address. (It is recomended to use a valid Email address)
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-forward-ports
NextCloudPi has implemented a UPnP client to be able to configure the Router to port forward to your Raspberry Pi.

### Requirements
You need to enable UPnP on your Router. Also disable it after you configure port forwarding.

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-forward-ports` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Set the ports your Nextcloud runs on. (It is recomended that you use the defaults)
3. Click Run or Start.


## no-ip
Use the DDNS (Dynamic DNS) service by noip.com.

Run the TUI (`ncp-config`) or use the WebUI.
1. Navigate to `no-ip` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `USER` with your user name.
4. Change `PASS` with your password.
5. Change `DOMAIN` with your (sub)Domain Name.
6. Change `TIME` with the interval time you want to update the DNS record. Default 30mins.
7. Click Run or Start.


## samba
Configure SMB/CIFS file server (for Mac/Linux/Windows)

>If we intend to modify the data folder through SAMBA, then we have to synchronize NextCloud to make it aware of the changes. 
>This can be done manually or automatically using [`nc-scan`][nc-scan]  and [`nc-scan-auto`][nc-scan-auto] from `nextcloudpi-config`

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `samba` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `NCUSER` to your Nextcloud User (default=admin).
4. Change `USER` to the NextCloudPi User (default=pi).
5. Change `PWD` to the NextCloudPi User's Password.
6. Click Run or Start.

--------------------------------------------------
# SECURITY

## fail2ban
As soon as your NextClouPi is connected to the internet it might get attacked. Most attacks are probably automated attacks by botnets or scripts trying to break into your System by simply using standard username/password combinations like admin/admin. [fail2ban](https://github.com/fail2ban/fail2ban/wiki/How-fail2ban-works2) scans your webserver logs (which can be found under /var/log/apache2/error.log) for failed login attempts. If there are to many failed attempts (default is 6 failed attempts within 10 minutes) fail2ban will ban the attacker's IP address for a certain amount of time (default is 10 minutes). If you activate mail alerts you will receive emails when fail2ban locks out certain IP addresses. 
NextCloudPi uses fail2ban to secure Nextcloud logins as well as SSH logins.


### How to activate
Run the TUI (`ncp-config`) or use the WebUI.
1. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`
2. Change (optional) `BANTIME` (in seconds, default: 600 = 10 minutes) to change the duration of a ban for a certain IP address after too many failed login attempts.
3. Change (optional) `FINDTIME` (in seconds, default: 600 = 10 minutes) to change the time slot in which  failed login attempts are counted and the IP address gets banned.
4. Change (optional) `MAXRETRY` (default: 6 attempts) to change the number of failed login attempts that trigger an IP address ban.
5. Change (optional) `EMAIL` with your personal email to receive ban notifications.
6. Change (optional) `MAILALERTS` to activate/deactivate email notifications.
7. Click Run (WebUI) or Start (TUI)

## modsecurity
Web Application Firewall for extra security (experimental)

This is a really strong layer of security that makes sure that even if there is a vulnerability in Nextcloud code, it will be blocked by modsecurity in most cases.

The downside is that it can break some Apps, so disable it if something doesn't work for you. Tested with the most common Apps.

Learn more [here](https://ownyourbits.com/2017/03/23/modsecurity-web-application-firewall-for-nextcloud/)

-------------------------------------------------------------
# SYSTEM

## nc-automount
Enable this feature if you want your device to automount USB drives.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-automount` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to yes.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-ramlogs
Enable mounting logs in RAM to prevent SD degradation (faster, consumes more RAM)

### How to restore
1. Navigate to `nc-ramlogs` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-swapfile
Change the location and the size of the swap file.

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-swapfile` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `SWAPFILE` to the location you want the new swap file to be.
3. Change `SWAPSIZE` to the desired size of the swap file (default=1024).
4. Click Run or Start.

## unattended-upgrades
Enable Automatic installation of security updates to keep your cloud safe.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `unattended-upgrades` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `AUTOREBOOT` to `yes` if you want your Raspberry Pi to reboot automatically in order to apply updates (optional).
4. Click Run or Start.

-----------------------------------------------------
# TOOLS

## nc-format-USB
Do this if you want to format your USB Drive and make it compatible with linux user/permissions system

> Make sure that **ONLY** the USB drive that you want to format is plugged in. 

> Be careful, this will destroy **ALL** data in the USB drive

>** YOU WILL LOSE ALL YOUR USB DATA **   

### How to run
1. Navigate to `nc-format-USB` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `LABEL` to a label you like.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-scan
Perform a Nextcloud scan for user files.

### How to run
1. Navigate to `nc-scan` in the TUI or the WebUI.


## nc-update
Perform a manual update.

### How to run
1. Navigate to `nc-update` in the TUI or the WebUI.

Commit message:

add nc-admin and nc-autoupdate-nc

Configuration-Reference.md, after:

[nc-scan-auto]: https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-scan-auto
[nc-scan]: https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-scan

### Table of Contents  
* [BACKUPS](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#backups)   
* * [nc-backup-auto](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-backup-auto)
* * [nc-backup](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-backup)
* * [nc-export-ncp](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-export-ncp)
* * [nc-import-ncp](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-import-ncp)
* * [nc-restore](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-restore)
* * [nc-rsync-auto](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-rsync-auto)
* * [nc-rsync](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-rsync)
* * [nc-snapshot-sync](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#nc-snapshot-sync)
* [CONFIG](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#config)   
* [NETWORKING](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#networking)   
* [SECURITY](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#security)   
* [SYSTEM](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#system)   
* [TOOLS](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference#tools)
 
----------------------------------------
# BACKUPS

## nc-backup-auto
Perform automatic backups.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-backup-auto` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `DESTDIR` to a desired location for the backups.
4. Change `INCLUDEDATA` to `yes` (optional), to backup your data as well.
5. Change `BACKUPDAYS` to the number of days to perform the backup.
6. Change `BACKUPLIMIT` to the number of backups to be kept. If limit is reached, then the new backup will replace the older one.
7. Click Run or Start.

## nc-backup
Perform a manual backup.

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-backup` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `DESTDIR` to the desired location you want your backup to be.
3. Change `INCLUDEDATA` to `yes` if you want to include the Nextcloud data to the backup as well.
4. Change `BACKUPLIMIT` to the number of backups to be kept. If limit is reached, then the new backup will replace the older one.
5. Click Run or Start.

## nc-export-ncp
Export NextCloudPi configuration
Note: This exports **only** the settings from NCP.
**NO** NC data, NC database or NC configuration are included.

### How to configure
1. Create the directory where you want the NCP settings to be saved.
2. Set export directory path.
3. Click "Apply"

## nc-import-ncp
Import NextCloudPi configuration
Note: This imports **only** the settings from NCP. 
**NO** NC data, NC database or NC configuration are included

### How to configure
1. Set import file name and path.
3. Click "Apply"

## nc-restore
Restore a previously backuped Nextcloud instance.<br>
If the `data` folder of Nextcloud was not included in the backup: After restoring, edit /var/www/nextcloud/config/config.php and point your Nextcloud instance to the path where the data is. After that run nc-scan to make Nextcloud aware of the new files.

```
file: config.php
...
'datadirectory' => '/<your-path>/ncdata',
...
'logfile' => '/<your-path>/ncdata/nextcloud.log',
...
```

## nc-rsync
To get the rsync connection between the ncp and a backup-server working you need to establish two main steps:
1. The backup-server needs to have a user. This user needs diskspace, the permission for ssh-autologin and the right to use rsync.
2. On your ncp, root needs to be allowed to ssh-autologin to the user of the backup-server.

Step 1: 
Please check what you need to do on your server side. In case you use a Synology NAS (DiskStation, RackStation), you need to enable ssh ("Control Panel", "Terminal & SNMP"), give the user - which you use to backup the data - administration access ("Control Panel", "User"), and enable Rsync ("Control Panel", "File Sharing", "File Services").

Step 2: 
* Login to your ncp on the terminal
* change to the root account (sudo -s)
* go to the home directory of the root (cd ~)
* follow these steps to create the auto-login for the root user: [http://linuxproblem.org/art_9.html](http://linuxproblem.org/art_9.html) (a: root user, A: the IP of the ncp, b: user at the backup-server, B: IP of the backup server)
* make sure that ssh-access works for the root user to the backup-server

After these steps you should be able to backup your data with rsync between the ncp and the backup-server. Test this with the following command:

`rsync -e 'ssh -p 22' -av /home/pi/ b@B:/path/to/your/backup/`

If this works check the following next command:

`rsync -e 'ssh -p 22' -aAv /home/pi/ b@B:/path/to/your/backup/`

If this also works ("A" means ACL-support) then you are fine. If this gives and error message ("ACL not supported on server") then you need to either enable ACL-support on the backup-server-side or you need to tweak the ncp-script in: "/usr/local/etc/ncp-config.d/nc-rsync.sh" and "/usr/local/etc/ncp-config.d/nc-rsync-auto.sh" and remove the "A"-option in the rsync-command of the script (this counts for ncp version 0.64.2, the ACL option might be dropped in later versions, please check).

## nc-rsync-auto
See comments on nc-rsync. This lets you automatically schedule the rsync process every SYNCDAY.

---------------------------------------------------
# CONFIG

## nc-admin
View or (re)set password for user **ncp**, the adminstrator of Nextcloud web interface.

## nc-autoupdate-nc
Automatically update Nextcloud.

## nc-autoupdate-ncp
Automatically update NextCloudPi.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-autoupdate-ncp` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change the user to be notified when new updates are installed (default=admin).
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-database
Enable if you want to change the Nextcloud database location (e.x. to a usb drive).

> **Note** that non Unix filesystems such as NTFS are not supported because they do not provide a compatible user/permissions system.

>You need to use a USB drive that is permanently on and is responsive or the database will fail.     

> ** If it ever fails with a white page, move the database back to the SD **

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-database` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `DBDIR` to your database location.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-datadir
Change the `data` folder location of Nextcloud.

> **Note** that non Unix filesystems such as NTFS are not supported because they do not provide a compatible user/permissions system  

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-datadir` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `DATADIR` to your data location.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-httpsonly
Force secure connection using HTTPS.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-httpsonly` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-init
(Re)initiate Nextcloud to a clean configuration.

## nc-limits
Configure system limits for NextCloudPi.

> **Note** that `MAXFILESIZE` can be at maximum `2G` for now, due to limitation of 32bit php.

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-limits` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `MAXFILESIZE` to the desired maximum file size (<=2G).
3. Change `MEMORYLIMIT` to the memory limit you want (default=768M).
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-nextcloud
Download and install a specific Nextcloud version. This destroys any existing instance. You need to run nc-init after completing nc-nextcloud, to take care of setting up database and cron jobs.

## nc-notify-updates
Get notified for updates (Pending or Installed) through the Nextcloud notification system.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-notify-updates` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `USER` to the user you want to be notified (default=admin).
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-scan-auto
Automate a Nextcloud scan for user files.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-scan-auto` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Set `SCANINTERVAL` to the interval (in minutes) you want to scan every.
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-webui
Enable or disable the WebUI.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-webui` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.

-------------------------------------------------------
# NETWORKING

## NFS
Configure a NFS network file system server. This is a lightweight way to mount your cloud files through LAN in a Linux computer.

### SSH Activate/deactivate 

In order to enable SSH, the password for user pi can not remain set to the default raspberry.
You HAVE to create a NEW password for pi if you want this program to enable SSH, it will fail if you dont!
Note: Use normal AlphaNumeric, the only special characters allowed are .,@-_/

1. Navigate to `SSH` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change the password.
4. Confirm new password.
4. Click Run or Start.

## dnsmasq
This is a DNS server that you might need in case you cannot access you cloud from inside your house by the external URL, such as _mycloud.freeDNS.org_. This depends on wether your router supports _NAT loopback_. 

See [this post](https://ownyourbits.com/2017/03/09/dnsmasq-as-dns-cache-server-for-nextcloudpi-and-raspbian/) for details.

## freeDNS
[FreeDNS](https://freedns.afraid.org/) client.

Most home users do not have a static IP but rather a dynamic IP that changes from time to time. in order for you to be able to access your Nextcloud instance, from outside of your house, without typing an IP address you need a DDNS service which tracks IP changes and updates the DNS records. 

You need to register an account on [FreeDNS](https://freedns.afraid.org/) and setup a (sub)Domain Name.

### How to activate
Run the TUI (`ncp-config`) or use the WebUI.
Log in to freedns.afraid.com and click "Dynamic DNS". Right click on "Direct URL" next to your record. Paste it in a text editor and select only the hash (the letters after the "?").
1. Navigate to `DDNS_freeDNS` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`
3. Change the `UPDATEHASH` with yours (delete the example and paste with ctrl+shift+V)
4. Change `DOMAIN` with your Domain Name you have registered.
5. (Optional) Change the `UPDATEINTERVAL` to the interval time you want the client to update your IP (Dynamic IPs do not change that often so you can leave the default (5mins)).
6. Click Run or Start.

## letsencrypt

In order to trust a connection to a website and send your user name and password, you need a SSL certificate. The SSL certificate ensures that the communication is encrypted, so everything you send can only be viewed by the server and not someone who impersonates him. By default NextCloudPi provides a self signed SSL certificate in order to encrypt your communication but it is strongly recomended that you use a certificate from a certificate authority. The NextCloudPi can run the Let's Encrypt client which gets a certificate from https://letsencrypt.org for your (sub)Domain Name. NextCloudPi also configures the web server to use it and renews the certificate once a month.

### Configure
1. Navigate to `letsencrypt` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change the `DOMAIN` with your (sub)Domain Name.
3. Change the `EMAIL` with your Email address. (It is recomended to use a valid Email address)
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-forward-ports
NextCloudPi has implemented a UPnP client to be able to configure the Router to port forward to your Raspberry Pi.

### Requirements
You need to enable UPnP on your Router. Also disable it after you configure port forwarding.

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-forward-ports` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Set the ports your Nextcloud runs on. (It is recomended that you use the defaults)
3. Click Run or Start.


## no-ip
Use the DDNS (Dynamic DNS) service by noip.com.

Run the TUI (`ncp-config`) or use the WebUI.
1. Navigate to `no-ip` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `USER` with your user name.
4. Change `PASS` with your password.
5. Change `DOMAIN` with your (sub)Domain Name.
6. Change `TIME` with the interval time you want to update the DNS record. Default 30mins.
7. Click Run or Start.


## samba
Configure SMB/CIFS file server (for Mac/Linux/Windows)

>If we intend to modify the data folder through SAMBA, then we have to synchronize NextCloud to make it aware of the changes. 
>This can be done manually or automatically using [`nc-scan`][nc-scan]  and [`nc-scan-auto`][nc-scan-auto] from `nextcloudpi-config`

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `samba` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `NCUSER` to your Nextcloud User (default=admin).
4. Change `USER` to the NextCloudPi User (default=pi).
5. Change `PWD` to the NextCloudPi User's Password.
6. Click Run or Start.

--------------------------------------------------
# SECURITY

## fail2ban
As soon as your NextClouPi is connected to the internet it might get attacked. Most attacks are probably automated attacks by botnets or scripts trying to break into your System by simply using standard username/password combinations like admin/admin. [fail2ban](https://github.com/fail2ban/fail2ban/wiki/How-fail2ban-works2) scans your webserver logs (which can be found under /var/log/apache2/error.log) for failed login attempts. If there are to many failed attempts (default is 6 failed attempts within 10 minutes) fail2ban will ban the attacker's IP address for a certain amount of time (default is 10 minutes). If you activate mail alerts you will receive emails when fail2ban locks out certain IP addresses. 
NextCloudPi uses fail2ban to secure Nextcloud logins as well as SSH logins.


### How to activate
Run the TUI (`ncp-config`) or use the WebUI.
1. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`
2. Change (optional) `BANTIME` (in seconds, default: 600 = 10 minutes) to change the duration of a ban for a certain IP address after too many failed login attempts.
3. Change (optional) `FINDTIME` (in seconds, default: 600 = 10 minutes) to change the time slot in which  failed login attempts are counted and the IP address gets banned.
4. Change (optional) `MAXRETRY` (default: 6 attempts) to change the number of failed login attempts that trigger an IP address ban.
5. Change (optional) `EMAIL` with your personal email to receive ban notifications.
6. Change (optional) `MAILALERTS` to activate/deactivate email notifications.
7. Click Run (WebUI) or Start (TUI)

## modsecurity
Web Application Firewall for extra security (experimental)

This is a really strong layer of security that makes sure that even if there is a vulnerability in Nextcloud code, it will be blocked by modsecurity in most cases.

The downside is that it can break some Apps, so disable it if something doesn't work for you. Tested with the most common Apps.

Learn more [here](https://ownyourbits.com/2017/03/23/modsecurity-web-application-firewall-for-nextcloud/)

-------------------------------------------------------------
# SYSTEM

## nc-automount
Enable this feature if you want your device to automount USB drives.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `nc-automount` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to yes.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-ramlogs
Enable mounting logs in RAM to prevent SD degradation (faster, consumes more RAM)

### How to restore
1. Navigate to `nc-ramlogs` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
4. Click Run or Start.

## nc-swapfile
Change the location and the size of the swap file.

### How to configure
1. Navigate to `nc-swapfile` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `SWAPFILE` to the location you want the new swap file to be.
3. Change `SWAPSIZE` to the desired size of the swap file (default=1024).
4. Click Run or Start.

## unattended-upgrades
Enable Automatic installation of security updates to keep your cloud safe.

### How to enable
1. Navigate to `unattended-upgrades` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `ACTIVE` to `yes`.
3. Change `AUTOREBOOT` to `yes` if you want your Raspberry Pi to reboot automatically in order to apply updates (optional).
4. Click Run or Start.

-----------------------------------------------------
# TOOLS

## nc-format-USB
Do this if you want to format your USB Drive and make it compatible with linux user/permissions system

> Make sure that **ONLY** the USB drive that you want to format is plugged in. 

> Be careful, this will destroy **ALL** data in the USB drive

>** YOU WILL LOSE ALL YOUR USB DATA **   

### How to run
1. Navigate to `nc-format-USB` in the TUI or the WebUI.
2. Change `LABEL` to a label you like.
3. Click Run or Start.

## nc-scan
Perform a Nextcloud scan for user files.

### How to run
1. Navigate to `nc-scan` in the TUI or the WebUI.


## nc-update
Perform a manual update.

### How to run
1. Navigate to `nc-update` in the TUI or the WebUI.
