Home.md, before:

Welcome to the NextCloudPi wiki! This is a collection of information about how to install NextCloudPi and most of the configuration options. Please contribute - this is how open source communities thrive! 

![](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/4f384c9344f2deded0ade5f65890a114af8f834e/68747470733a2f2f6f776e796f7572626974732e636f6d2f77702d636f6e74656e742f75706c6f6164732f323031372f31312f6e63702d7371756172652e706e67)

If this is your first time with NextCloudPi, start with the [Installation Guide](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-install-NextCloudPi)

All the wiki pages are available alphabetically from the right side bar, in an effort to make them more accessible here they are listed into three main categories. It is a work in progress......


| Getting Started             | Configure                     | Maintain             |
| :-------------------------- | :---------------------------: | -------------------: |
| [Home & Overview](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki)            | [Adding languages](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Add-a-new-language-to-ncp-web)              | [Enable SSH](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-enable-SSH-using-nextcloudpi-config-(or-ncp-web))           |
| [How to Install](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-install-NextCloudPi)              | [Configuration Reference](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference)       | [Email settings](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Email-settings)       |
| [How to Access LAN](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-access-NextCloudPi)           | [Configure External USB drive](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-configure-an-external-USB-drive-with-NextCloudPi)  | [Backup & Restore](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-backup-and-restore-a-NextCloudPi-instance-using-ncp-config)     |
| [How to Access WAN](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-access-from-outside-your-network)           | [NCP-config](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-configure-NextCloudPi)                    | [Auto Backup](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-periodically-backup-to-a-second-USB-drive-with-NextCloudPi)         | 
| [How to Berryboot 1](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-install-NextCloudPi-on-an-external-drive-using-Berryboot.)          | [2FAuthentication](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Two-Factor-Authentication-for-Nextcloud)                  | [Contribute](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Contribute)           |
| [How to Berryboot 2](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/BerryBoot-Instructions-for-NextCloudPi)          | [Letsencrypt DNS](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-get-certificate-with-Letsencrypt-using-DNS-to-verify-domain)               | [Development env](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Development-environment)      |
| [FAQ](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/FAQ)                         | [Letsencrypt closed ports](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-configure-Let's-Encrypt-with-closed-ports-80-and-443)      | [Testing NCP](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Testing-NextCloudPi)          |
| [Why is my Pi slow](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Why-is-my-Pi-so-slow%3F)           | [Sync NC to Android](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Sync-Nextcloud,-tasks,-calendars-and-contacts-on-your-Android-device)         | [Workflow Testing Feature](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Workflow-and-testing-of-new-features) |
| [How & where to get help](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-and-where-to-get-help)      |    [How to snapshot with Btrfs](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-snapshot-with-btrfs)           | [Update Lynis](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-update-Lynis)         | 
| [How to get started with NCP Docker](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/how-to-get-started-with-ncp-docker)           |                  | [App developers guide](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/ncp-app-developer-guide) |

Commit message:

add new nc-snapshot page

Home.md, after:

Welcome to the NextCloudPi wiki! This is a collection of information about how to install NextCloudPi and most of the configuration options. Please contribute - this is how open source communities thrive! 

![](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/4f384c9344f2deded0ade5f65890a114af8f834e/68747470733a2f2f6f776e796f7572626974732e636f6d2f77702d636f6e74656e742f75706c6f6164732f323031372f31312f6e63702d7371756172652e706e67)

If this is your first time with NextCloudPi, start with the [Installation Guide](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-install-NextCloudPi)

All the wiki pages are available alphabetically from the right side bar, in an effort to make them more accessible here they are listed into three main categories. It is a work in progress......


| Getting Started             | Configure                     | Maintain             |
| :-------------------------- | :---------------------------: | -------------------: |
| [Home & Overview](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki)            | [Adding languages](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Add-a-new-language-to-ncp-web)              | [Enable SSH](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-enable-SSH-using-nextcloudpi-config-(or-ncp-web))           |
| [How to Install](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-install-NextCloudPi)              | [Configuration Reference](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Configuration-Reference)       | [Email settings](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Email-settings)       |
| [How to Access LAN](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-access-NextCloudPi)           | [Configure External USB drive](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-configure-an-external-USB-drive-with-NextCloudPi)  | [Backup & Restore](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-backup-and-restore-a-NextCloudPi-instance-using-ncp-config)     |
| [How to Access WAN](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-access-from-outside-your-network)           | [NCP-config](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-configure-NextCloudPi)                    | [Auto Backup](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-periodically-backup-to-a-second-USB-drive-with-NextCloudPi)         | 
| [How to Berryboot 1](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-install-NextCloudPi-on-an-external-drive-using-Berryboot.)          | [2FAuthentication](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Two-Factor-Authentication-for-Nextcloud)                  | [Contribute](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Contribute)           |
| [How to Berryboot 2](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/BerryBoot-Instructions-for-NextCloudPi)          | [Letsencrypt DNS](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-get-certificate-with-Letsencrypt-using-DNS-to-verify-domain)               | [Development env](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Development-environment)      |
| [FAQ](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/FAQ)                         | [Letsencrypt closed ports](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-configure-Let's-Encrypt-with-closed-ports-80-and-443)      | [Testing NCP](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Testing-NextCloudPi)          |
| [Why is my Pi slow](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Why-is-my-Pi-so-slow%3F)           | [Sync NC to Android](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Sync-Nextcloud,-tasks,-calendars-and-contacts-on-your-Android-device)         | [Workflow Testing Feature](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/Workflow-and-testing-of-new-features) |
| [How & where to get help](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-and-where-to-get-help)      |    [How to snapshot with Btrfs](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-snapshot-with-btrfs)           | [Update Lynis](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-update-Lynis)         | 
| [How to get started with NCP Docker](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/how-to-get-started-with-ncp-docker)           |      [How to backup and restore using nc-snapshot](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/How-to-backup-and-restore-using-nc-snapshot)            | [App developers guide](https://github.com/nextcloud/nextcloudpi/wiki/ncp-app-developer-guide) |
