docs/General-Info/Should-I-use-a-Raspberry-Pi.md, before:

## Hi, I'm looking to use NextcloudPi; should I use a Raspberry Pi?

You certainly can!  The latest Pi model will have better performance, but has a few downsides as nicely described in _[What's Wrong with the Raspberry Pi](https://ownyourbits.com/2019/02/02/whats-wrong-with-the-raspberry-pi/)_.

- Pi 3b+ is a decent choice with gigabit networking, but there are better options!
- Pi 2 works just okay.
- Pi 3 works slightly better than the 2 model.
- Pi Zero W has very low performance. **Note: armv6 is no longer supported!**

## Best ARM Device for NextcloudPi

The best ARM device is not a Raspberry Pi!  Surprise!  It is a great device, but [competition is heavy these days](https://help.nextcloud.com/t/best-cheap-hardware-to-run-nextcloud-on). </br></br>

For price vs. performance the most popular NextcloudPi ARM Devices are:

- [Rock64](https://www.pine64.org/?page_id=7147) -- same price as the Raspberry Pi 3b
- [ODROID HC-1]() -- 2.5" Hard Disk support for $49.00
- [ODROID HC-2](https://ameridroid.com/products/odroid-hc1) -- 3.5" Hard Disk support for $55.00

## If you have further questions, be sure to ask on our [Telegram chat](https://t.me/nextcloudpi) or [Community Forum](https://help.nextcloud.com/tags/ncp).  There are tons of other options available, [which you can read about here](https://help.nextcloud.com/t/best-cheap-hardware-to-run-nextcloud-on).

Commit message:

add link to article on rpi power supply

docs/General-Info/Should-I-use-a-Raspberry-Pi.md, after:

## Hi, I'm looking to use NextcloudPi; should I use a Raspberry Pi?

You certainly can!  The latest Pi model will have better performance, but has a few downsides as nicely described in _[What's Wrong with the Raspberry Pi](https://ownyourbits.com/2019/02/02/whats-wrong-with-the-raspberry-pi/)_. If you want to learn more about rpi's power requirements, this [article](https://www.elinux.org/RPi_Hardware) will be of use.

- Pi 3b+ is a decent choice with gigabit networking, but there are better options!
- Pi 2 works just okay.
- Pi 3 works slightly better than the 2 model.
- Pi Zero W has very low performance. **Note: armv6 is no longer supported!**

## Best ARM Device for NextcloudPi

The best ARM device is not a Raspberry Pi!  Surprise!  It is a great device, but [competition is heavy these days](https://help.nextcloud.com/t/best-cheap-hardware-to-run-nextcloud-on). </br></br>

For price vs. performance the most popular NextcloudPi ARM Devices are:

- [Rock64](https://www.pine64.org/?page_id=7147) -- same price as the Raspberry Pi 3b
- [ODROID HC-1]() -- 2.5" Hard Disk support for $49.00
- [ODROID HC-2](https://ameridroid.com/products/odroid-hc1) -- 3.5" Hard Disk support for $55.00

## If you have further questions, be sure to ask on our [Telegram chat](https://t.me/nextcloudpi) or [Community Forum](https://help.nextcloud.com/tags/ncp).  There are tons of other options available, [which you can read about here](https://help.nextcloud.com/t/best-cheap-hardware-to-run-nextcloud-on).
